RHIDP-3970 - Authentication - Authenticating with Microsoft Azure (#492)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authentication/proc-provisioning-users-from-microsoft-azure-to-the-software-catalog.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="proc-provisioning-users-from-microsoft-azure-to-the-software-catalog_{context}"]
= Provisioning users from Microsoft Azure to the software catalog

.Prerequisites
* You xref:proc-adding-azure-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}[enabled authentication with Microsoft Azure].

.Procedure

* To enable Microsoft Azure member discovery, edit your custom Developer Hub config map, such as app-config-rhdh, and add following lines to the app-config-rhdh.yaml content:
+
[id=microsoftGraphOrgProviderId]
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with mandatory `microsoftGraphOrg` fields
[source,yaml]
----
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false # <1>
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0

>         authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com

Author: Are the `target` and `authority` mandatory? Or optional? And why would a customer change their value?

Reviewer: Target is mandatory while authority is optional (see [comments](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/918d273bbb843bd09bb6c80d22d87c257a7e5343/plugins/catalog-backend-module-msgraph/config.d.ts#L31-L41)). From what I understand, target refer to the MSGraph API endpoint the provider is connecting to, the user can change this for different versions. For instance, there is the [beta endpoint](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/overview?view=graph-rest-beta#call-the-beta-endpoint).

As for authority, seems like there's different "authorities" where the is an unique URL for specific use cases. ([national cloud](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/deployments#app-registration-and-token-service-root-endpoints))

.Procedure

* To enable Microsoft Azure member discovery, edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
+
--
[id=microsoftGraphOrgProviderId]
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with mandatory `microsoftGraphOrg` fields
[source,yaml]
----
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
        authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
----

`dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false`::
 Allow authentication only for users present in the {product-short} software catalog.

`target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0`::
Defines the MSGraph API endpoint the provider is connecting to.
You might change this to use a different version, such as the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/overview?view=graph-rest-beta#call-the-beta-endpoint[beta endpoint].

> `authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com`::
> Defines the authority used.
> Change the value to use a different link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/deployments#app-registration-and-token-service-root-endpoints[authority],
> such as Azure US government.

Author: ```suggestion
```

`tenandId`, `clientId` and `clientSecret`::
Use your OpenShift secrets.

Optional: Consider adding following optional `microsoftGraphOrg.providerId` fields:

> 

Author: ```suggestion

[id=authority]
`authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com`:: 

+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `queryMode` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com/
----
```

> :_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
> [id="proc-provisioning-users-from-microsoft-azure-to-the-software-catalog_{context}"]
> = Provisioning users from Microsoft Azure to the software catalog

Author: ```suggestion
[id="provisioning-users-from-microsoft-azure-to-the-software-catalog"]
= Provisioning users from Microsoft Azure to the software catalog
```

.Prerequisites
* You xref:proc-adding-azure-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}[enabled authentication with Microsoft Azure].

.Procedure

> * To enable Microsoft Azure member discovery, edit your custom Developer Hub config map, such as app-config-rhdh, and add following lines to the app-config-rhdh.yaml content:

Author: ```suggestion
* To enable Microsoft Azure member discovery, edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as app-config-rhdh, and add following lines to the app-config-rhdh.yaml content:
```

.`app-config.yaml` fragment with mandatory `microsoftGraphOrg` fields
[source,yaml]
----
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
        authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
----

`dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false`::
 Allow authentication only for users present in the {product-short} software catalog.

`target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0`::
Defines the MSGraph API endpoint the provider is connecting to.
You might change this to use a different version, such as the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/overview?view=graph-rest-beta#call-the-beta-endpoint[beta endpoint].
`authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com`::
Defines the authority used.
Change the value to use a different link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/deployments#app-registration-and-token-service-root-endpoints[authority],
such as Azure US government.

`tenandId`, `clientId` and `clientSecret`::

> Use your OpenShift secrets.

Reviewer: Same as above, this should be Microsoft Azure application secrets

----

`schedule.initialDelay`::
To specify custom initial delay.
Supports ISO duration and "human duration" as used in code.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.initialDelay` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        schedule:
          initialDelay: { seconds: 15}
----
--

.Verification

. Check the console logs to verify the synchronization has been completed.
+
.Successful synchronization example:
[source,json]
----
backend:start: {"class":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider$1","level":"info","message":"Read 1 msgraph users and 1 msgraph groups in 2.2 seconds. Committing...","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"88a67ce1-c466-41a4-9760-825e16b946be","timestamp":"2024-06-26 12:23:42"}
backend:start: {"class":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider$1","level":"info","message":"Committed 1 msgraph users and 1 msgraph groups in 0.0 seconds.","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"88a67ce1-c466-41a4-9760-825e16b946be","timestamp":"2024-06-26 12:23:42"}
----

> . Log in with a Microsoft Azure account.

Reviewer: Is this completed?

[id="provisioning-users-from-microsoft-azure-to-the-software-catalog"]

> = Provisioning users from Microsoft Azure to the software catalog

Reviewer 2: Consider adding an introduction to this section.

Author: ```suggestion
= Provisioning users from Microsoft Azure to the software catalog

To authenticate users with Microsoft Azure, after xref:enabling-authentication-with-microsoft-azure[Enabling authentication with Microsoft Azure], provision users from Microsoft Azure to the {product-short} software catalog.
```

.Prerequisites

> * You xref:proc-adding-azure-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}[enabled authentication with Microsoft Azure].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have xref:proc-adding-azure-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}[enabled authentication with Microsoft Azure].
```

.Procedure

> * To enable Microsoft Azure member discovery, edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To enable Microsoft Azure member discovery, edit your custom {product-short} ConfigMap, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
```

+
--
[id=microsoftGraphOrgProviderId]
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with mandatory `microsoftGraphOrg` fields
[source,yaml]
----
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
----

`dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false`::

> Allow authentication only for users present in the {product-short} software catalog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allow authentication only for users in the {product-short} software catalog.
```

`target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0`::
Defines the MSGraph API endpoint the provider is connecting to.

> You might change this to use a different version, such as the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/overview?view=graph-rest-beta#call-the-beta-endpoint[beta endpoint].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might change this parameter to use a different version, such as the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/overview?view=graph-rest-beta#call-the-beta-endpoint[beta endpoint].
```

`tenandId`, `clientId` and `clientSecret`::

> Use the {product-short} application information that you have created in Microsoft Azure and configured in OpenShift as secrets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the {product-short} application information you created in Microsoft Azure and configured in OpenShift as secrets.
```

> Optional: Consider adding following optional `microsoftGraphOrg.providerId` fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optional: Consider adding the following optional `microsoftGraphOrg.providerId` fields:
```

Default value: `https://login.microsoftonline.com`.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `queryMode` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com/
----
[id=queryMode]
`queryMode: basic | advanced`:: By default, the Microsoft Graph API only provides the `basic` feature set for querying.
Certain features require `advanced` querying capabilities.
See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/aad-advanced-queries[Microsoft Azure Advanced queries].
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `queryMode` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        queryMode: advanced
----

[id=userExpand]
`user.expand`::
To include the expanded resource or collection referenced by a single relationship (navigation property) in your results.
Only one relationship can be expanded in a single request.
See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/query-parameters#expand-parameter[Microsoft Graph query expand parameter].

> Can be combined with xref:userGroupMember[] or xref:userFilter[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter can be combined with xref:userGroupMember[] or xref:userFilter[].
```

+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `user.expand` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        user:
          expand: manager
----

[id=userFilter]
`user.filter`::
To filter users.
See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/user?view=graph-rest-1.0#properties[Microsoft Graph API] and link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/query-parameters#filter-parameter[Microsoft Graph API query filter parameters syntax].

> This and xref:userGroupMemberFilter[] are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter and xref:userGroupMemberFilter[] are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified.
```

+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `user.filter` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        user:
          filter: accountEnabled eq true and userType eq 'member'
----

[id=userLoadPhotos]
`user.loadPhotos: true | false`::
Load photos by default.
Set to `false` to not load user photos.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `user.loadPhotos` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        user:
          loadPhotos: true
----

[id=userSelect]
`user.select`::
Define the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/schemaextension?view=graph-rest-1.0[Microsoft Graph resource types] to retrieve.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `user.select` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        user:
          select: ['id', 'displayName', 'description']
----

[id="userGroupMemberFilter"]
`userGroupMember.filter`:::
To use group membership to get users.
To filter groups and fetch their members.

> This and xref:userFilter[] are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter and xref:userFilter[] are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified.
```

+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `userGroupMember.filter` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        userGroupMember:
          filter: "displayName eq 'Backstage Users'"
----

[id="userGroupMemberSearch"]
`userGroupMember.search`::
To use group membership to get users.
To search for groups and fetch their members.

> This and xref:userFilter[] are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter and xref:userFilter[] are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified.
```

+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `userGroupMember.search` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        userGroupMember:
          search: '"description:One" AND ("displayName:Video" OR "displayName:Drive")'
----

[id=groupExpand]
`group.expand`::
Optional parameter to include the expanded resource or collection referenced by a single relationship (navigation property) in your results.
Only one relationship can be expanded in a single request.
See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/query-parameters#expand-parameter

> Can be combined with xref:userGroupMember[] instead of xref:userFilter[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter can be combined with xref:userGroupMember[] instead of xref:userFilter[].
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        group:
          select: ['id', 'displayName', 'description']
----

`schedule.frequency`::
To specify custom schedule frequency.
Supports cron, ISO duration, and "human duration" as used in code.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.frequency` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        schedule:
          frequency: { hours: 1 }
----

`schedule.timeout`::
To specify custom timeout.
Supports ISO duration and "human duration" as used in code.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.timeout` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        schedule:
          timeout: { minutes: 50 }
----

`schedule.initialDelay`::
To specify custom initial delay.
Supports ISO duration and "human duration" as used in code.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.initialDelay` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providerId:
        schedule:
          initialDelay: { seconds: 15}
----
--

.Verification

> . Check the console logs to verify the synchronization has been completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Check the console logs to verify that the synchronization is completed.
```

          # See  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/schemaextension?view=graph-rest-1.0
          select: ['id', 'displayName', 'description']
        schedule: # optional; same options as in TaskScheduleDefinition
          # supports cron, ISO duration, "human duration" as used in code
          frequency: { hours: 1 }
          # supports ISO duration, "human duration" as used in code
          timeout: { minutes: 50 }
          # supports ISO duration, "human duration" as used in code
          initialDelay: { seconds: 15},
----
+
<1> Allow authentication only for user present in the {product-short} software catalog.
<2> Optional mode for querying which defaults to "basic".
By default, the Microsoft Graph API only provides the basic feature set for querying.
Certain features are limited to advanced querying capabilities.
See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/aad-advanced-queries[Microsoft Azure Advanced queries].

.Verification

. Check the console logs to verify the synchronization has been completed.
+
.Successful synchronization example:
[source,json]

> ----

Reviewer: The logs will look like this: 
```
backend:start: {"class":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider$1","level":"info","message":"Read 1 msgraph users and 1 msgraph groups in 2.2 seconds. Committing...","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"88a67ce1-c466-41a4-9760-825e16b946be","timestamp":"2024-06-26 12:23:42"}
backend:start: {"class":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider$1","level":"info","message":"Committed 1 msgraph users and 1 msgraph groups in 0.0 seconds.","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"88a67ce1-c466-41a4-9760-825e16b946be","timestamp":"2024-06-26 12:23:42"}
```

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
----
backend:start: {"class":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider$1","level":"info","message":"Read 1 msgraph users and 1 msgraph groups in 2.2 seconds. Committing...","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"88a67ce1-c466-41a4-9760-825e16b946be","timestamp":"2024-06-26 12:23:42"}
backend:start: {"class":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider$1","level":"info","message":"Committed 1 msgraph users and 1 msgraph groups in 0.0 seconds.","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"MicrosoftGraphOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"88a67ce1-c466-41a4-9760-825e16b946be","timestamp":"2024-06-26 12:23:42"}
```
